- [Instructor] This is a new class I added
called RatingController.
It invokes tourRatingService
to look up the tour ratings in the database,
which are converted into rating DTOs.
The API is exposed as /ratings.
This is RatingControllerTest.
A pretty cool feature of Spring Boot
is the ability to invoke an application controller's API
in a real servlet environment
without invoking the dependencies.
In this case, tourRatingService is the dependency.
Unlike other unit tests
that directly invoke Java methods,
this will actually invoke the URL.
But how does it do that?
It's basically an integration test,
which starts up the entire Spring Boot web context
but the tourRatingService is mocked out.
The API is invoked by a RESTful web service client.
Let's look at the annotations here at the beginning.
Something is new and it's webEnvironment equals RANDOM_PORT.
Instead of port 8080,
which may already be in use,
at runtime, the port is randomly generated
to avoid other testing conflicts.
@MockBean forces the Spring context
to auto wire RatingController
with a mock version of TourRatingService
instead of the real TourRatingService.
tourRatingMock and tourMock
are simple mock POJO classes.
TestRestTemplate is our client.
This is a convenient alternative
to RestTemplate for consuming RESTful web services
within unit tests.
The randomly generated port
and full URL path are injected into TestRestTemplate.
You can learn more about it in the public methods
in the Spring.io Java doc.
So before running each test,
we set up expectations of the mock objects.
And now, let's look at getRatings tests.
We have an expectation
that tourRatingServiceMock.lookupAll ratings
will return three mocked tour ratings.
Then we invoke restTemplate.getForEntity
to invoke the /ratings API.
Finally, we check that we get back the expected rating DTOs
and that the HTTP status is okay.
I have a breakpoint set at the beginning
of that method and at the end of the method
once the assertions have proven true
and there's also a breakpoint within RatingController.
When I'm in debug, I cannot step into getForEntity
because that is running
on a different thread from RatingController.
So let's start it up.
And in the console,
you'll see that within this test,
it actually starts the Spring Boot application
as if it was running solo.
And that's why this test takes a little longer to run.
So here we are at the first breakpoint.
And we set up our expectation
and we're going to resume running the application.
And now we're back
in the actual RatingController getAll method
and then resume.
And we have completed the test
and the assertions are true.
Now let's look at getOne,
which invokes the /ratings/id API.
So while that's starting up,
we set the expectation
for the tourRatingServiceMock.lookupRatingByid
to return a optional of tourRatingMock
when ratingId is passed in.
Then we invoke the REST template getForEntity
and then we check our assertions
to make sure the HTTP status is okay
and that the contents of the response body
have the details about the customer comment and score.
So we're at our first breakpoint.
Resume.
It switches over to RatingController
to look up by ID,
which is actually going to be the mock tourRatingService.
And then continue
and then we're back at the bottom of that
and our assertion's passed.
And finally, I have a negative test here.
To make sure that the code behaves properly
if a rating ID's pass in
for a rating that doesn't exist.
So on my expectation for when the
tourRatingServiceMock.lookupRatingbyId is called,
return an optional empty.
Just like in the previous test,
we invoke the REST template .getForEntity
for RATINGS_URL/RATING_ID.
This time, we will expect that httpStatus.NOT_FOUND
is returned and that the response body
will be a string with an error message.
So here we are at the first breakpoint.
Here we are in the controller,
invoking the tourRatingService.
Resume.
Now we're down into our exception handler,
which will generate the error message
whenever a no such element exception was thrown.
We're going to return httpStatus.NOT_FOUND.
And we're back in the test
and we have passed our assertions
that the status is not found
and the body has that string in it.
In the exercise files,
I also created a TourRatingControllerTest.
As a challenge,
I encourage you to step through those on your own
to understand how to test HTTP POST,
PATCH and PUT APIs.